We warmly welcome all of you to this edition of JW Broadcasting. March 8th, 2025, graduation day for the 157th class of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
54 graduates from 28 countries completed months of intense Bible instruction.
Before receiving their diplomas, what parting words of encouragement did they receive from members of the governing body, their instructors, and other experienced brothers?
We are pleased to share with you parts from that graduation program, which was held at the Watchtower Educational Center in Patterson, New York.
So dear Gilead students, this is your day. Can you believe it? Graduation day, March 8th, 2025.
It seems like just yesterday you were being introduced to the Bethel family, but how quickly five months passes.
Today you will become graduates, and we're thrilled to be here with you on this special day.
Of course, this day will have highs and lows. Maybe as you think about departing, separating from your class 157 family, you become closer than brothers and sisters during this time.
It will be bittersweet, perhaps, as you contemplate departing.
One recent graduate expressed it as like having a wedding and a funeral in the same day.
But during the past five months, you've developed a spiritual feeding program like no other.
Study and preparation in advance of each day in the classroom. You remember the intensity.
You remember the blood, the sweat, the tears in a sense as you prepared for classes, as you prepared for tests.
The challenge of keeping up with all of that. Well, maybe the last couple of days you've gone through Gilead withdrawal in a sense.
For that reason, in my introductory comments, I would like to address the theme, stay hungry, stay thirsty.
First, stay hungry. Let's consider two things that you should continue to hunger for moving forward in your sacred service to Jehovah.
I invite you to open to Matthew chapter 5, and notice with me, please, verse 3.
And you know what this verse says. Jesus Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapter 5 verse 3, there he said,
Happy are those conscious of their spiritual need since the kingdom of the heavens belongs to them.
So happier those conscious of their spiritual need or those who are beggars for the spirit as we note in the footnote.
We might even say those who are hungry for spiritual food, what's the point? Stay hungry.
Be like a bear just before hibernation. They enter a state called hyperphagia or increased appetite.
During that time period, some bears consumed 20,000 calories a day.
They're searching for food 20 out of 24 hours a day. Maybe during Gilead school, you were hungry as a bear.
Devouring food, eating it up spiritually, and at times literally maybe as well.
Are you hoping to shed a few pounds after you went to part school?
But in a spiritual sense, what's the major difference between being hungry as a bear prior to hibernation and you?
Well, you're not going into hibernation.
There's very little downtime between the end of class and starting in your theocratic assignments.
You can't live off the fat, you've stored up at Gilead.
You can expect to face bigger tests and your assignments than you even had in the classroom.
So instead of a bear before hibernation, let's compare your situation to a bird before migration.
They too enter a state called hyperphagia, preparing them for their long flights to prepare them for the work ahead.
You might not be migrating, although some of you will be, yes.
But maybe you received a new assignment for which you need to keep strengthening your spirituality.
What's the key to success?
Stay hungry.
Will Jehovah satisfy your hunger?
Well, what can we learn from a miracle that Jesus performed?
If you turn to John chapter 6, notice with me please verse 11.
One of Jesus' miracles where he fed a multitude.
John chapter 6 verse 11.
And again, the question, will Jehovah satisfy your spiritual hunger?
Notice what's expressed here, John 6 verse 11.
Jesus took the bread and after giving thanks, he distributed it to those who were sitting there.
He did likewise with the small fish and they had as much as they wanted.
Jesus multiplied five loaves and two fish and fed possibly over 15,000 people.
How many people is he feeding spiritually in our day?
Millions?
What was the result?
Back then, they had as much as they wanted.
And so that's true of you as well.
Stay hungry.
Continue to feed spiritually.
You can have as much as you want.
For instance, what's available in JW Library alone?
Over 330 morning worship programs.
Over 10 years of broadcasts, that's more than 120 hours of spiritual food.
Three complete years of regional conventions from 20 to 2022.
We can watch them again if we choose.
That's just some of the video content not to mention audio, including music.
And what about written publications?
Well, the Watchtower magazines go back to 1950.
The Wake magazines go back to 1970.
1,815 Watchtower magazines are available.
1,011 Wake magazines are available just in JW Library.
Is Jehovah through his son providing meat and do season?
Absolutely.
Isaiah 256 that says that in this mountain, Jehovah of Armies will make for all the people a banquet of rich dishes,
a banquet of fine wine, of rich dishes filled with marrow, of fine filtered wine.
We are well fed spiritually.
We can have as much as we want.
Jehovah through his son provided in the first century.
Jehovah through his son is providing spiritually for his people in our day.
Stay hungry.
Now, do you ever eat your favorite meal and say,
I'll never have that again?
No, we keep coming back.
So what's the point in a spiritual sense?
Well, we can continue to feed on some of the things that we've enjoyed in the past.
Although we like to hear new things, maybe refinements in our understanding,
it's good to go back and review what we already know.
To drive in the nails, so to speak.
What's the point?
Well, although we like to hear new things at times,
go back to your Gilead notes.
Continue to drive in the nails.
Stay hungry.
Never become satiated or fully satisfied.
At the end of a study period, crave the next study period.
What's next on the menu?
That's our hunger for spiritual food.
Let's consider one more hunger.
If you're still there in Matthew, notice Jesus' words in verse 6.
Happy are those hungering and thirsting for righteousness since they will be hill.
He filled.
So who are such ones?
The study note says that those who long to see corruption and injustice replaced
with God's standards of right and wrong, they strive to conform to those standards.
So what's the point?
Stay hungry for Jehovah's righteousness.
And how does Jehovah satisfy our hunger for righteousness?
One watchtower stated this,
spiritual hunger and thirst for righteousness will be fully satisfied in the new world.
So we keep an expectation.
Another watchtower stated,
let us not lose heart or be amazed that oppression and violence have taken away righteousness in this satanic world.
So we do not become insensitive to the circumstances, the unrighteousness of this world.
We avoid the path of the ridiculers mentioned in 2 Peter 3 verse 4,
who say,
all things are continuing exactly as they were from creations beginning.
No!
The world's moral decay is evidence that God's kingdom and His righteousness are close at hand and how we take comfort in that.
Stay hungry for God's righteousness confident that you will be filled.
So dear Gilead students,
stay hungry for spiritual food.
Stay hungry for God's righteousness.
What about stay thirsty?
Well, we'll talk about that at the end of the program.
The next part of our program is something we always look forward to, the inside story.
So this one will feature interviews of Gilead students from branches that care for nearly 25% of the publishers worldwide.
Brother Trent Lipold, another of the Gilead instructors will care for the interviews.
Which countries are these?
Let's watch.
Welcome to the inside story.
In the book of Acts chapter 1 verse 8, Jesus said to His disciples that they would be witnesses of Him to the most distant part of the earth.
And today we are going to meet guests from the 157th class who are serving in distant parts of the earth.
So let's meet our first guest, Brother Fernando Samal from Brazil.
Welcome Fernando.
Thank you.
It's good to have you on the inside story.
You come from Brazil.
You're serving at the branch there in Sao Paulo.
Yes.
I know there is a place in Brazil that is very close to your heart.
I love the Amazon region.
So what is it about the Amazon region, Fernando?
Maybe two words, the people.
Nice.
They are amazing.
I'm interested.
What is it about the people there?
They really accept the truth.
They have a good inclination to serve Jehovah or to hear about God.
And it's amazing because we are able to preach to them all the time.
So what is it like to actually preach to them?
What's it like to converse with them?
We can talk about many different matters, but since they live in the middle of the jungle,
the middle of the creation that Jehovah made to us,
we can use that to help them.
And of course, they face some challenges that the new world will solve.
And this can be the matter that we talk with them.
Nice.
Now, how is it that you first visited the Amazon?
I've been there many years ago.
We received in our house one brother that went to MTS in Sao Paulo.
And he was serving that time in a boat over there.
And he invited us to visit.
And I went there with my two flash brothers for the first time.
Nice.
So he started the fire in you for the Amazon region.
Have they had preaching campaigns in the region?
Yes.
They made this a few years ago, a P campaign with a lot of good results.
We saw the increase over there.
Many people are coming to the truth.
New congregations, new circuits.
And many brothers are supporting the work over there.
You mentioned that something that really touched you about the brothers who participated in the preaching campaigns.
Can you tell us about that?
A few of them decided to stay.
They went just to support for maybe one week or two weeks.
But then they noticed the need.
And they decided to stay.
They moved over there.
They are serving and taking the lead in the congregation.
For me, this is amazing.
I know in Brazil you have some SKE schools.
How is SKE even used to support the work in the Amazon region?
We are saving in the last years many brothers to serve over there.
After the school, they are assigned to those congregations that they need help.
And it's been amazing from Jehovah, actually, to help the growing over there.
Very nice.
Now the Brazil branch and audio video services have prepared a video about preaching in the Amazon region.
So I'm really looking forward to seeing what it's like there and why it's so special to you.
So let's enjoy it together.
Let's see.
Brazil is vast.
It is the largest country in South America and the fifth largest in the world.
It contains a wide range of landscapes, including wetlands, savannas, mountains and rainforests.
It is home to the largest river system in the world, the mighty Amazon.
We have about 920,000 publishers in Brazil.
New congregations and new circuits are being formed every year with approximately 25,000 people getting baptized each year.
Yes, Brazil is on fire.
However, there is too much work to be done.
Did you know there are more than 28 million people living in the Amazon region of Brazil
and hundreds of indigenous languages are spoken.
An incredible help has been the school for Kingdom evangelizers.
Here in Brazil, we have two educational centers for SKE, as well as some satellite locations.
In the past two years alone, 54 classes have been held.
The school is very focused on the Amazon region because there's such a need there.
In fact, a quarter of all graduates from Brazil go to that area.
But once the graduates arrive, they are not left on their own.
The local brothers teach them things like what to say or not say, how to act in certain situations.
The teachers are the local brothers.
The dynamics of preaching in the Amazon region involves traveling great distances.
I remember during our first visits into the interior, the local brothers would say,
brother, you need more time here for us to go into the interior.
And I thought, I'm already in the interior.
Then we discover that there is an interior of the interior that involves even more days of travel and longer boat trips.
We graduated from SKE on October 6, 2024.
We were assigned to the Amazonist region.
This made us a bit anxious at first because we had no idea what that area would be like,
or if we would find work or not.
Honestly, we expected it to be more difficult, but it was completely the opposite.
We're doing really well here.
This assignment has been a true gift for us.
The local service in the Amazon is great.
People are so receptive.
As you can see, Brazil is a big country with a big heart to go with it.
Jehovah is indeed blessing our hard-working brothers and sisters.
As they joyfully share, enriching those in the remote areas of Brazil.
That is amazing Fernando, really, really impressive.
The work that's going on there in that region.
May I ask you, what has been your longest trip to the Amazon region?
I've been there for more than 20 days, 20, 25 days, around that.
How long did it take you to get there?
Sometimes, more than one day by boat.
This is what it calls low boat.
We have fast boats, airplanes, but it's nice.
You can enjoy the trip.
It's beautiful, amazing river.
Whatever way you go to be able to preach the word, it's a great place.
Thank you very much, Fernando.
Thanks for sharing your special place with us here on the Inside Story.
A pleasure.
Let's meet our next guests.
It's Carla and Judah Kern from Central America.
Carla and Judah, nice to have you.
You're on the Inside Story.
You're both serving presently in Mexico at the Central America branch.
How long have you been in Mexico?
Seven years now, not too long.
We were serving in Honduras in the field before that.
Okay.
I know you come from Canada, but how did you get to Honduras?
My parents.
Growing up, Mom and Dad were always looking for where to serve, where he was great.
We moved a lot when I was a kid.
I have a brother and a sister, so our family of five
was constantly on the move.
And when I was 15, Mom and Dad told us,
we're thinking, next move, Honduras.
So we thought, okay, sounds fun.
And literally, we just packed our car, everything we could inside our car on top of our car,
said goodbye to our family in Canada, and drove from Canada to Honduras.
So as a kid, a 15-year-old Honduras became home.
The ministry became my life.
I started pioneering soon after we got there.
And I got appointed as a special pioneer.
So that was really nice to be assigned to isolated areas of the country as well.
I got to serve on an island called Guanaja in the mosquito coast.
Beautiful experiences throughout the country.
Very nice.
Now, I know you told me your Dad's a planner.
So maybe to a 15-year-old felt like you just packed the car and left.
He probably did more than that, but it seemed like that.
What about you, Carla?
How did you get to Honduras?
Well, I was born in Ireland, and my parents are from England.
They were both in triplets.
When they were younger, they moved to Ireland to serve where they knew it was greater.
They met there, got married, started special pioneering together.
And when my brother and I came along, they carried on special pioneering together with us.
So we were raised in the ministry.
They really loved it, and they helped us to love it as well.
So when I moved away from home after I finished school, I started pioneering.
Yeah, I just carried on enjoying the ministry.
But around that time, there was a lot of my friends were reaching out to serve where the name was greater abroad.
So that was something I didn't always became a good goal for me as well.
To expand my ministry.
So one day a friend invited me.
She sent me a message.
She said, there's a chance for us to go to Honduras together.
It's a small island called Guanaha in the middle of the Caribbean.
It's like, why not?
It doesn't sound like something you should turn down.
But at the time, I had no money.
I had nothing in the bank.
I was filling my car up with two dollars for a petrol at a time.
I'm not going very far.
And just at that time, within the half hour of her message,
my work offered me a full-time position for a couple of months.
So I said, yes.
So Jehovah gave me a way to go to Honduras.
So I went after three months of working,
and I arrived in a very small little island in the middle of the Caribbean,
and a special pioneer.
Who had red hair picked me up in a boat?
And that's what I'm saying.
We were married within the year.
You said, Judah, that it became home for you.
Is there anything specific about Honduras or Central America,
Mexico that made it feel like home?
Like Fernando said, the people.
And when my family arrived to Honduras, we saw it right away.
Like I mentioned, we drove to Honduras.
So seven days, a family of five sitting together,
you can imagine what that journey would have been like.
But arriving in the country, you arrived in the middle of a hurricane,
which we didn't know when we left Canada.
So day seven coming into Honduras, hurricane Mitch, we caught,
and we were driving through the country in the pouring rain,
and got to a little town where we got stuck.
There was no going forward.
The road was blocked by water.
We went back.
They could close the bridge already.
So I couldn't speak the language.
I was stuck in a little town.
So dad just rolled the window down and said all he could in Spanish.
Testigos de Heo va, something like that in this broken Spanish.
Jehovah's Witnesses.
He spoke better Spanish after that.
And sure enough, the man who was there pointed.
There was a sister just there, one of the, I think,
seven publishers in that town at the time.
So they took us in.
They were in the middle of a hurricane suffering.
And they were happy to have us.
It was, they were feeding us fried chicken.
One of the sisters had a little restaurant there.
We were excited about that.
So for a few days, we were stuck in this town.
But what a welcome we got in their homes.
And that's how it was everywhere we went.
Just into people's homes.
They loved to have us.
It was such a warm family.
Warm welcome and hospitality.
How would you describe the hospitality, Carla?
Yeah, I would say that straightaway you're in.
You're in with them.
What do you mean by that?
As in, there's no breaking the ice phase.
There's no warming up to you phase.
It's like straightaway as soon as you arrive in the congregation,
you're in with them.
So you're passing by their house, for example,
and you're thirsty, you're hot.
They invite you in.
They sit you in front of a fan.
They give you water.
You need an app.
They have a bed.
They have a hammock.
If you want a porch.
So their hospitality is never just on their terms.
It's to meet the needs that you have.
So whatever need you had at that time,
they were just willing to fill it.
Nice.
They came pick up you in the airport to feed it.
This is very nice.
I learned it quickly.
Judith, for you, as a young single, special pioneer,
did you enjoy the hospitality?
I did, and I have to say that it was kind of embarrassing.
The hospitality I was shown so much
so that I pretty much never cooked.
He still doesn't.
And that's why I never got to learn how to cook.
There were just two hospital assignments that I was in.
Thank you, brothers and sisters.
Very, very nice.
That just makes it home, going to a distant land
and to be so warmly welcomed.
In fact, there was an expression they would use
when they would invite me over.
They would say, just come on in.
We'll add more water to the soup.
So that was the expression about what they were eating.
It was a figurative expression, but it was beautiful.
Do you have an expression like that in Portuguese?
Yes.
We add water to the beans.
The same idea.
Yes.
Nice.
What about the ministry, though?
What does it like to preach in the areas where you've served?
In Central America and in Honduras,
where we were just such a respect for the Bible.
So, so easy to start conversations.
And that meant getting to know our Bibles.
I remember when we got there,
I'd not use the Bible much in the ministry.
Maybe a verse I'd memorize.
But then I'd be going in service with families
that had kids, maybe 10 years old,
that knew all these scriptures, different ones they were reading.
And I'm like, how do they know so many verses in the Bible?
But then just going more in service,
I realized it's because everybody wants to hear the Bible.
So that was really nice getting to know the scriptures.
What about for you, Carla?
So coming from Ireland to Honduras,
was there much of a learning curve for you?
Yeah.
The same was Judah just getting to know your Bible.
So maybe you're used to using just one or two scriptures at a door.
You had your favorites.
But there you could just like use the whole range of the Bible.
So that was really nice getting to know the Bible better.
Also getting to know the publications,
because there's so many opportunities to conduct Bible studies.
So you really got familiar with them.
And the publications.
And also something I really appreciated was,
you'd arrive at their house.
They weren't expecting you, but they sat you down.
They got their Bible out.
And as you were speaking, they would take notes and lines.
So seeing their appreciation for the Bible really helped
kind of like cement it down for you as well,
just how amazing the Bible is.
Oh, what a beautiful experience. So nice.
The branch in Central America,
along with the AVS,
has prepared a nice video for us to be able to see some of these areas
and perhaps some of this hospitality
and looking forward to seeing it with you.
Me too.
Central America is a large region of land
that includes the countries of Panama,
Costa Rica,
Nicaragua,
Honduras,
El Salvador,
Guatemala,
and Belize.
It extends in an arc roughly 1800 kilometers
or 1,100 miles in length from the northwest to the southeast.
And no matter where you live in Central America,
you are never more than 200 kilometers
or 125 miles away from the sea.
By September 2012,
the preaching work in Costa Rica,
El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras,
Nicaragua, and Panama all came under the supervision
of the Central America branch in Mexico.
What efforts are being made to reach honest hearted ones
in some of the diverse areas of Central America?
It has truly been a beautiful experience to be here in El Salvador.
The training that we received at the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
has been so helpful
because it taught us that beyond delivering a message,
it is important to have empathy
and really listen and understand people.
Well, people here are quite religious and devoted to their faith.
I try to demonstrate Christian qualities,
like those we're learning in the love people make disciples brochure.
Today, we observe people and listen to what they want to express.
We wait for the right moment to preach to them.
That indicates that Jehovah is blessing the efforts
we make to find the deserving ones.
Here in La Seiva,
we preach in different languages,
called sign language,
misquito, garifuna, and Spanish.
Jehovah has really blessed the efforts of the publishers here.
The local people are amazed when one greets them in their language.
And that is something that has been very positive.
We also have the use of JW.org
and their face is shine when they are shown a video in their language.
They are completely amazed and very happy
that we have made videos in their language.
We have seen Jehovah's blessing in the territory
and also the support from our brothers.
Feeling like we have many partners to preach with
to make return visits and conduct Bible studies.
This makes the ministry even more enjoyable.
Mexico City is one of the largest cities in the world.
The main city has a population of over 9 million.
Many languages are spoken,
not just the main languages like English, Spanish, French,
but also indigenous languages.
The number of languages present a big challenge
because how do we reach all those people?
Well, one thing that has really helped is public witnessing.
We have, for example,
over 24 locations for special metropolitan witnessing
just in Mexico City.
So that opens up a big opportunity to reach people
in their native language.
So recently two groups were formed in Haitian Creole.
It's beautiful to welcome people who speak another language
and be able to learn it to transmit Jehovah's message
in that language.
As you can see, Central America's diversity is also its beauty.
Jehovah's people are reflecting like mirrors his great love
in reaching out to people of all nationalities, tongues, and backgrounds.
Remarkable.
Thank you so much for that.
It's amazing to see the work that's just the variety of places
and the work that's being done there.
I notice there's a lot of water, a lot of water, a lot of beaches.
Do you swim there?
Yes, on the island where we were,
pretty much every week we would spend a nice day at the beach
enjoying the water, snorkeling.
Crystal clear, beautiful.
Miss it.
Crystal clear, a lot of water in the Amazon region.
Do you swim there?
Yes.
But it's not crystal and clear all the time.
And sometimes we have crocodiles.
And pinangas, it's...
We need to look.
Yeah, what is possible to do that?
But again, Jude and Krath, just a beautiful spirit.
We see the brothers and sisters there in the hard work.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for letting us talk to you about the amazing preaching work
there in Central America.
Thank you.
Let's meet our next guests.
It's Christian and Karina Zagetti from the Philippines.
Christian and Karina, welcome.
Thank you for being here with us on the Inside Story.
So you both are serving in Philippines at the Philippines branch,
but you're not from the Philippines, you're from Brazil.
So how did you get from Brazil to the Philippines?
That's a good question.
I'm asking myself how I ended up there.
So now, actually, we got transferred from Brazil branch
to the Philippines branch for a project for a computer department,
initially for two years.
Initially, it's a long project.
Yes.
We've been there for almost 15 years now.
Well, that's beautiful, though.
But how did it happen?
What was it that happened that got you to the Philippines?
Yes, so we got an invitation.
There were possibilities for us to serve in another branch.
So I was serving as a single in Brazil for 12 years.
Then we got married.
I was there.
Fernando was there.
Yeah, he was in our wedding.
We got approved to stay in Bethel.
And then just a few months after we got married,
we had this possibility to serve in another branch.
But we consider, talk about it, pray about it, maybe,
maybe another time.
New in Bethel.
But you ended up in the Philippines.
That just three months later, this next opportunity came.
New invitation to go to the Philippines.
So we realized you're over one in us to go to a foreign assignment.
And we prayed about it and say, yes, we didn't want to be like,
join and say no.
So we're like, let's go.
Well, Jonah was a courageous prophet.
That's true.
And you're courageous.
Jonah went to his assignment.
And here you are in the Philippines.
So a long way from home, what would you say that helped make the Philippines your home?
And definitely the brotherhood.
Jehovah's organization, it's truly a big family.
And being so far from home, we can feel the love from the brothers in the congregation
and in the Bethel family.
How they welcomed us.
Always so concerned for our well-being.
And also, they went always out of their way to care for us.
So it was beautiful to see.
And that definitely made us feel home pretty quickly.
I'm sure it would.
Can you think of an example, Christian, of how they did that for you?
Well, the brothers, they did so many things for us to feel at home.
So I think one thing that touched our hearts was when we were still having the food arrangement in Bethel.
So we had to go down to the dining hall to have breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
So we had this single brother in our table, in Bethel table, in the dining hall.
And he was from one of the distant provinces in the country.
And we were having a little bit of hard time to have fish and rice for breakfast.
So we were still trying to have fish and rice.
Yes, big eyes.
With big eyes, with the tail, the whole fish there.
But this brother, I think he was concerned about us.
And he said, hey, what is your favorite food?
I didn't have anything to say at the moment.
And I just thought about maybe a hamburger with fries.
I think that's my favorite food, I guess.
So instead of fish and rice for breakfast, hamburger and fries for breakfast.
I would say for lunch and dinner.
But then the next following day, right in front of our Bethel room,
there was a package there, and the brother gave it to us.
And he was like, concerned about our well-being.
So it was amazing.
It was just a little thing, but among so many others that the brothers made for us.
For us to feel at home, yeah.
So in the package was a hamburger and fries.
A hamburger.
Amazing, happy.
That's true.
Well, it would make you feel at home.
Yeah.
That's absolutely beautiful.
And so you're serving at the branch.
The branches in Manila.
Manila is one of the most densely populated cities in the world.
So what is preaching like in the city of Manila?
Yeah, that's true.
It's one of the most densely populated cities in the world.
There's a lot of people everywhere.
But the good thing is that they're really...
It's not hard to talk to people about the truth or about the Bible, especially the Bible.
Like Judamation and Fernandomation about these regions.
So they have a real respect for the Bible.
So we have all these arrangements in place, like street witnessing,
metropolitan witnessing,
cart witnessing.
We have a variety of business territories to covert.
And we also have more witnessing.
More witnessing.
More witnessing is an interesting form of preaching.
It's hard to not get distracted by the stores.
And I love the coffee shops there, so I had a...
But it's interesting.
You can still meet and talk to people in these areas.
And they are fine if you approach them in the right moment, the right time.
You mean in the coffee shop?
In the coffee shop.
You can be in the coffee shop.
Now I see my Christian loves coffee so much.
Yeah.
I would like to try to find a shopping mall in the middle of the Amazon rainforest.
With the coffee shop.
Yeah, it would be nice.
Again, the branch in the Philippines and ABS have prepared a video.
We're looking forward to seeing what preaching is like in the Philippines,
particularly in the metropolitan mill area.
So let's look at it.
The Philippines is an island country of Southeast Asia.
Located in a Pacific Ocean.
It consists of more than 7,000 islands and eyelids,
about 800 kilometers or 500 miles off the coast of Vietnam.
Did you know that Philippines is the second most popular Asian country
with English as an official language following India?
The capital, Manila, is part of a greater metropolitan region known
as metropolitan Manila.
Interestingly, well, this is the smallest region in the Philippines.
It is also the most densely populated,
being home to over 13 million Filipinos.
What is it like to preach in this densely populated area?
More than 10% of the publishers in the Philippines reside in Metro Manila.
That is over 30,000 publishers.
Interestingly, over 9,400 of them serve as regular pioneers.
Metro Manila is a city of contrast.
It has high buildings in its central business districts.
It also has informal settlements in narrow streets and alleyways.
A street of less than a kilometer can be home to hundreds of families.
Some congregations in our circuit,
especially those that are in the metropolitan area,
are assigned to work on many apartment buildings.
So the congregation body of elders have trained specific individuals
to be able to penetrate these areas effectively.
Some areas in Metro Manila are so densely populated,
we don't always have accurate maps or specific addresses for everyone.
So it can be a real challenge to determine whether these areas
have been well covered or not.
But thanks to good telecratic training and useful online tools,
these areas are getting mapped out.
The Filipino Sign Language Territory is an interesting field in Metro Manila.
Many brothers and sisters have learned the Sign Language
in order to help the deaf ones learn the good news.
We can see Jehovah's Blessing through the fulfilment of Haggai chapter 2 verse 7.
It feels as though Jehovah is indeed shaking these territories
so that the precious ones,
those rightly disposed hearts,
will come to his organization and serve him.
Personally, it's very encouraging to see
how the brothers and sisters endure faithfully and joyfully.
They endure not because they do not have a choice.
They endure because they are happy,
doing God's work and loving the people.
Yes, as you can see, the Philippines is a preaching paradise.
Jehovah is making sure that no one gets mis in this historic time of the end.
Wow, there is so much being done and so much work to do.
Let me ask you this though,
the brother mentioned there are so many publishers in the Metro Manila era
and a lot of regular pioneers,
even with so many publishers there,
is there still a need?
Yes, there is still a need.
It's actually one of the regions in the country
that there is a growth in publishers.
As a matter of fact, nearly 20% of those who were baptized
in the Philippines were coming from this particular area in Manila.
So in Manila region, so there is growth there for sure.
Wow, interesting. Thank you so much.
Christian Karina, thank you so much for being here
and thank you for your self-sacrificing spirit
in being in the Philippines,
making it your home and supporting the work that's going on there.
And we say thank you to all of you for being with us on the inside story
and your self-sacrificing spirit to support the preaching work.
Jesus said the fields are white for harvesting
and what we've seen today indeed they are.
And it's beautiful to see the spirit, the intrepid spirit
of our brothers and sisters in preaching the good news of God's kingdom
and also to see the support of the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
to help this work grow worldwide.
We look forward to seeing all of you on another edition of the Inside Story.
Well, the time has now come for the principal talk of this graduation.
It will be presented by a member of the governing body, Brother Mark Sanderson,
and he has chosen the theme.
The desirable thing in a man is let's give him our attention.
It is as high as the heavens.
It fills the earth.
It is extended to a thousand generations
and it endures forever.
What is it?
It is one of Jehovah's most beautiful qualities, his loyal love.
Now what is loyal love?
Well, one of our publications says this.
Loyal love defies a concise definition in many languages
and I'd like to say English is one of them.
Trying to find a concise definition is not easy
but I'll take a stab at it.
The glossary of Bible terms in the New World translation says this.
Loyal love refers to love motivated by commitment, integrity,
loyalty, and deep attachment.
Another reference says this.
It is kindness that lovingly attaches itself to persons
and being evident in continual kind actions.
Did you get that?
Becoming evident in continual kind actions.
But perhaps the best reference that I found
was the one that said this.
The best way to grasp the essence of the biblical expression
is by studying how God treated his true worshipers down through the ages.
Isn't that true?
When we think about how Jehovah protected and fed the Israelites
when they were in the wilderness for 40 years,
when he brought them into the promised land,
he gave them judges to rescue them from their enemies.
He gave them prophets to rescue them and bring them back
when they got involved in false worship.
And because Jehovah stuck with them in good times
and in the very most difficult of times,
Jehovah could say this to the nation.
Let's read it.
Jeremiah chapter 31 and verse 3.
About midway down the verse, Jehovah says,
I have loved you with an everlasting love.
That is why I have drawn you to me with loyal love.
Well, that is so true.
We are drawn to Jehovah because of his loyal love for us.
We can trust it.
We can rely on it.
In good times and in the very most difficult of times in our lives,
we are always living in expectation of Jehovah's loyal love
that he manifests in his continual kind act toward each of us.
Brothers, don't we love Jehovah's loyal love?
Well, while we can never equal Jehovah in showing loyal love,
the scriptures do show that this is a quality that we as humans
must display toward others.
Now let's read together what it says in Proverbs chapter 3.
Proverbs chapter 3 and verse 3.
It says, Do not let loyal love and faithfulness leave you.
Tie them around your neck.
Write them on the tablet of your heart.
So what do you learn from that?
We are expected by Jehovah to display loyal love.
But how do we as humans display loyal love to other people?
Well, just as Jehovah's loyal love causes him to attach himself to us
with commitment and loyalty,
well, we want to attach ourselves, others to others,
not simply with warm and fuzzy feelings,
but with continual, enduring, steadfast acts of kindness
that demonstrate our loyal love.
Now why is this an important topic for all of you who are graduating today?
Well, let's consider three reasons.
Here's the first.
You have all been recipients of loyal love from others.
Now how did you get here to Gilead?
Now I don't mean how did you get here to the auditorium this morning.
But how is it that you got to this point in your life
that today you are graduating from the Gilead school?
It's good for all of you to pause now and reflect on that question.
Who were the people that loved you?
Who were the people that helped you so that you could be here today, graduated?
Who stood by you in good times and in bad times?
Maybe some of you think of your dear parents,
some of whom might be here today in the audience.
If you are, this is a happy day, right? I don't need to ask.
Maybe it was the brother or sister who studied the Bible with you.
Maybe it was the circuit overseer who encouraged you when you were young
or that older sister in the congregation that believed in you
and encouraged you to pioneer or to put in your application for Bethel.
Well today is a day for you to look through the photo album of your heart
and consider all of the people that have shown loyal love to you
and have encouraged you all along the way.
And then to be like Jehovah and show loyal love to them.
Maybe write them a card, send them a letter or an email,
maybe a text message or a gift.
You see some kind act to maintain that bond of loyal love between you.
And how are you benefited by doing so?
Well, among other things, it helps to keep you humble and modest,
always remembering that the things that you have achieved thus far
whatever you may achieve in the future is not solely due to your efforts
but in large part due to the loyal love that you have experienced from Jehovah
and from so many other loyal friends.
And never underestimate the power of a simple act of loyal love.
You know, one day I suddenly began to think about a couple
that helped us so much during the court cases in Moscow.
I decided them to just send them a brief text message
just to see how they were doing to check on them, let them know I was thinking about them.
And just a few minutes later, a text came back.
Brother Mark, we can't believe you wrote to us right now.
We were both on our knees praying to Jehovah, begging him
for some encouragement when suddenly we heard Ding on our phone.
Prove yourselves to be like your Heavenly Father by demonstrating loyal love
to all of the people that have loved you and who have helped you
to be sitting in these front rows of this auditorium today.
Here's a second.
In your assignments, you brothers who are graduating
are going to serve in one sense or another as overseers.
Now, always demonstrate loyal love to the brothers and sisters
that you're going to oversee and care for.
Now, that sounds like a very obvious statement, doesn't it?
And yet for us as humans, it can be challenging.
Well, why so?
Well, as we've discussed, when it comes to humans,
loyal love involves a bond between two people
and the continual kind deeds that occur between them
that create this lasting bond.
But now, here's the challenge.
You see, as imperfect humans, we may be very quick to form a bond
with people that we feel a connection with.
People who have similar abilities, similar talents, similar interests.
If you work in the service department, you're drawn to the circuit overseers,
the missionaries, the special pioneers, the desksmen, they're all wonderful.
If you're a translator, oh, you love the translators.
That brother helped translate the Bible.
My, right?
So you just love them, can't get enough of them.
If you work in the legal department, you even love the lawyers.
Oh, sorry, we all love the lawyers.
Sorry, we love you all.
And so on, and so on.
You see, we all love those wonderful, capable people
that we easily admire and look up to.
But here's a question.
What about all the faithful people?
What about all the faithful servants of Jehovah
that we just don't have that immediate connection with?
Let me be far more clear.
What about all the faithful people that are just plain annoying?
You know who you are.
People who won't take your phone calls.
Well, what are we going to do with all of those people?
Well, we have an answer because just to be quite frank with you,
the Bible is filled with annoying people.
Now, we all love Abraham, right?
We all love Abraham.
But now, if you go to Genesis chapter 18,
we're not going to read all of this,
but I'm just going to remind you of this account that you know well, Genesis 18.
And you know, we go down here,
and we hear Abraham praying to Jehovah, begins about verse 24,
and Abraham begins to go into this thing with Jehovah.
Jehovah, what if there's 50?
See, what if there's 45?
What if there's 40?
What if there's 30?
What if there's 20?
What if there's 10?
That's annoying.
It's just annoying, sorry.
But now, what did Jehovah do with that man who is a bit annoying?
He loved him.
He loyally stuck by him.
And although Abraham had been dead for more than a thousand years,
he continued to call him Abraham, my friend.
That's real loyal love.
What about Peter?
Peter could be very annoying.
Now, think about just one occasion.
Matthew chapter 17.
Matthew 17.
Here is Jesus.
And it's the occasion of the transfiguration.
This is a miraculous event, right?
So here, Peter is watching as Jesus is being transfigured,
and he sees him speaking with Moses and Elijah.
What an event, right?
Wouldn't it be exciting to see this?
This supernatural event?
And what does Peter say?
Hey, let's put up tents, and we can go camping.
That is annoying.
But it doesn't end there.
Of course, Peter went on to deny Jesus three times.
That's annoying.
But what did Jesus do with that man who could be so annoying?
He gave him the keys of the kingdom.
He trusted him with great responsibility.
He showed true loyal love to that annoying man.
So what's the point?
As you work as overseers, and you deal with your brothers and sisters,
even the annoying ones.
Remember the principle.
The simple principle that Jesus stated at Luke chapter 6.
Will you read it with me?
Let's read it.
Chapter 6, verse 32.
If you love those loving you,
of what credit is it to you,
for even the sinners love those loving them,
and if you do good to those doing good to you,
of what credit is it to you,
even the sinners do the same.
So demonstrate loyal love,
not just to those who you feel that immediate connection with,
but to all the faithful ones that you will oversee and care for,
work to form a bond of love,
even with the annoying ones.
And here's the third.
People in your assignments need your loyal love.
You see, the stated purpose of Gilead is to train men and women
who can strengthen and stabilize God's people.
Well, now who are those people?
Who are they?
They're simple, humble, faithful men and women
who are just trying their best to serve Jehovah.
Some are widows, some are orphans,
some are elderly, others are victims of natural disasters
and calamities of every sort.
Some are facing devastating diseases
while others are imprisoned for their faith.
All of these people need for you to loyally attach yourself to them,
to reassure them of your love through your continual kind deeds.
Well, to do so is going to require more than just warm feelings.
It's going to take your time.
It's going to take your emotional energy.
But this is what Jehovah instructs us to do at Zechariah chapter 7 and verse 9.
We read it with me.
Zechariah chapter 7 and verse 9.
It says,
This is what Jehovah of armies says.
Judge with true justice
and deal with one another in loyal love and mercy.
So Jehovah instructs us to deal with one another in loyal love.
Showing loyal love for your brothers and sisters who are struggling,
who are suffering,
will show that you really got the point of your Gilead training
and that you are in your assignments to strengthen and to stabilize,
to loyally love and support your brothers and sisters.
Remember, remember, they need, they need your loyal love.
Well, what have we learned in this discussion?
Loyal love is one of the most beautiful qualities of our amazing God, Jehovah.
But Jehovah also expects that we are going to display loyal love to one another,
that we will go through the photo album of our heart
and remember those who have displayed loyal love to us,
that we will loyally love all of those under our oversight,
even the annoying ones,
and that we will reach out with loyal love to those who are suffering
and who most need our kindness and attention.
Well, if you work hard in these ways to display loyal love,
what can all of you who are graduating today expect?
We know that you will be deeply loved by our Heavenly Father, Jehovah,
but also by all your brothers and sisters that you are going to serve.
And how do we know this?
Well, it's because of something the Bible says here in Proverbs 19 and verse 22.
Proverbs 19 verse 22 says,
the desirable thing in a man is his loyal love.
So may the blessing of Jehovah go with all of you wherever you go,
and may you never forget that the desirable thing in a man is his loyal love.
So now the time has come for the presentation of the diplomas.
Brother Michael Banks, a helper to the teaching committee,
will assist me with the names and assignments.
We have brother and sister Angel.
They have been assigned to the Columbia branch.
Sister Board will return to the United States branch.
Brother and sister Chumbuyu will return to the Zambia branch.
Brother and sister Chumbuyu will return to the Malawi branch.
Brother and sister Keran will return to the Central America branch.
Brother Dachmengi will return to the Canada branch.
Brother and sister Flynn will return to the Columbia branch.
Sister Harley will return to the Indonesia branch.
Brother and sister Hemake will return to the Netherlands branch.
Brother and sister Hernandez will return to the United States branch.
Brother and sister Hissam have been assigned to the Central Europe branch.
Brother Kaiser will return to the Central Europe branch.
Sister Macaray will return to the Papua New Guinea branch.
Brother Pradovichar will return to the Serbia branch.
Brother and Sister Pachopolis will return to the Greece branch.
Brother Piri has been assigned to the Uganda branch.
Brother Pichero will return to the Spain branch.
Brother and Sister Kensei will return to the New County Donia branch.
Brother and Sister Ribble have been assigned to the Ethiopia branch.
But asal Danya will return to the Peru branch.
Brother and Sister Sanchez will return to the Haiti branch.
Brother Samal will return to the Brazil branch.
Brother and Sister Stevenson have been assigned to the Brazil branch.
Brother and Sister Stalk will return to the Central Europe branch.
Brother and Sister Talk will return to the Hungry branch.
Sister Vargova will return to the Czech Solvok branch.
But the Wall 3 will return to the Netherlands branch.
Brother and Sister Ziegetti have been assigned to the Brazil branch.
But the Zoro will return to the Italy branch.
Michael had the hard part.
Well, would you like to see the entire class?
Gilead class 157.
We're happy that we don't have to say Jiger Sejadufa,
as Brothers Plain mentioned in a previous graduation,
which is the air make term for Gilead.
But at this time, we'd like to have Brother Sebastian Stalk
who will read a letter from the graduating class.
To the governing body.
Over the past five months, we have seen our grand instructor
with our own eyes.
We've learned through his word.
And now our hearts are overflowing with love, gratitude,
and trust in him.
When we began our Gilead training,
we often viewed scriptures as individual puzzle pieces
elected and applied to certain situations.
Now, we have experienced how these pieces come together
to reveal a unified and complete mosaic of Bible truth.
We thank you for the undiserved privilege
to take deep into and immerse ourselves in God's word.
We appreciate the time and energy that you shared with our class.
We benefited not only from the lectures,
but also the attention you dedicated to us afterwards.
We've been strengthened and encouraged by your humility
and how you have cultivated the mind of Christ.
Your deep love and respect for Jerova's word motivates us
to continue to build our own appreciation.
Your self-sacrificing spirit encourages us to imitate your example.
We are thankful that Jerova uses you as a means
to instruct us about the good way in which we should walk.
We are grateful to our instructors.
They help us to peer into the perfect law of God's word,
discern its principles, and make personal application.
Enthusiasm for the Bible accounts brought them to life
and helped get the words of the page and into our minds and hearts.
That dedication to the art of teaching reinforced our desire
to give our all each and every day so that we could fully benefit
from the class.
We want to express our gratitude to the entire
Theocratic schools department for their tireless efforts
behind the scenes to make our busy daily routine as smooth as possible.
Additionally, we are grateful to the US special family
for the hospitality and generosity.
They have shown us in a practical way what it means to show love
and kindness to strangers.
Knowing that they demonstrate this love to every class
year after year must certainly make our Heavenly Father smile.
Your beautiful example touched our hearts.
As we depart for our assignments,
we have in mind David's words,
be courageous and strong and go to work.
Do not be afraid or be terrified for Jehovah God.
My God is with you.
Thank you for this indescribable gift of being trained
to help strengthen and stabilize his people wherever we may serve.
Your brothers, Class 157.
It has been accomplished.
We are proud of you.
Not for the academic achievement that you have
driven forward during this class,
but the remarkable effect, the wisdom,
the love that you have developed during this divine education.
We anticipate the strengthening and stabilizing
that you will do in your respective branch territories.
In the introduction we discussed the need for all of us to stay hungry.
Well, what about stay thirsty?
Let's consider that for just a moment.
Let's discuss one thirst that we need to quench every single day.
Invite you to open to Psalm 143.
And notice with me, please, verses 5 and 6.
Psalm 143, verses 5 and 6, their David said,
I remember the days of old.
I meditate on all your activity.
I eagerly ponder over the work of your hands.
I spread out my hands to you.
I am like a parched land that thirsts for you.
So David thirsted for Jehovah.
Thirst for Jehovah as a parched land thirsts for water.
Water makes the land revive.
It makes it flourish.
Like a dry, crusty riverbed in Africa is revived in flourishes
when distant rains come and saturate the soil.
So we want to satisfy our thirst for Jehovah on a daily basis.
How?
How do we do that?
Well, we want to continue to learn more about our father on a daily basis,
digging into his word.
Hosea 6 verse 3 says that,
we will know, we will earnestly seek to know Jehovah.
He will come to us like a pouring rain,
like a spring rain that saturates the earth.
Even at Gilead, you have only learned the fringes of Jehovah's ways.
So there's so much more that's available through the organization,
through Jehovah's organization.
Keep thirsting, keep learning.
So learning about Jehovah, another thing,
maintain a regular routine of prayer.
Pray constantly is what first Thessalonians 5 verse 17 tells us.
The study note Paul says,
Paul was not expecting the Thessalonians to pray at every moment.
Rather, he was encouraging them to have a prayerful attitude.
So thirst for Jehovah.
Keep your relationship with him close.
Always look to Jehovah.
And will Jehovah satisfy your thirst for him?
Absolutely.
We can learn something from what occurred in Samson's life.
It's found in judges chapter 15.
And just as we had assurance earlier that Jehovah will care for your spiritual hunger,
he will care for your thirst as well.
In chapter 15, interestingly,
verses 17 through 19, Samson's life,
he had just experienced, as the verse says,
Jehovah's spirit empowered him.
He became absorbed in a Theocratic assignment,
fighting Jehovah's enemies, the Philistines,
and with the jawbone of a donkey,
killed 1,000 Philistines.
Then what?
Verse 17 says,
when he finished speaking,
he threw the jawbone away and he called the place,
and he called on Jehovah and said,
it was you who gave this great salvation
into the hand of your servant.
But now, am I to die of thirst and fall
into the hands of the uncircumcised?
So God split open a hollow that was in Lehigh
and water flowed from it.
When he drank,
his spirit returned, and he revived.
That is why he named the place,
and Hakkori,
which is in the name of Jesus.
He named the place,
and Hakkori,
which is in Lehigh to this day.
And Hakkori,
where Jehovah's split open a hollow
to satisfy Samson's thirst,
his spirit returned.
He revived.
So what's the point?
There's no antitipical jawbone of a donkey, no.
But in future days,
you will certainly be busy in Theocratic assignments,
just as Samson was.
Be sure to return to end Hakkori,
regularly, and revive your spirit
by drawing close to our God.
He is a lifeline to your success.
Stay hungry.
Stay thirsty.
Dear Gilead graduates.
For this Gilead graduation,
and for any occasion of eating and drinking
at Jehovah's table,
may our heart sentiments be those of the Psalmist,
Psalm 107,
verses 1 and 9.
There it says,
give thanks to Jehovah
for he is good,
his loyal love endures forever.
That ties in with Brother Mark's talk, too.
Verse 9 says,
for he has satisfied the thirsty,
and filled the hungry
with good things.
So all praise goes to Jehovah
for his bounteous spiritual gifts to us.
Dear Gilead graduates.
Stay hungry for spiritual food
and for God's righteousness.
Stay thirsty for Jehovah
on a daily basis.
And he, our loving Father,
will continue to fill you up
with an abundance of rich dishes.
We love you all very much.
How faith, strengthening,
and encouraging,
not only for the Gilead graduates,
but for each of us.
And there's more.
In the next few weeks,
look for additional talks
from the graduation
and the JW Library app
and then the video section
on JW.org.
For this month's postcard,
we travel to the Netherlands.
The Netherlands means
the lowlands,
a fitting name for a country
of more than a quarter of its land
below sea level,
and nearly 20%
iconic windmills
and wooden shoes are reminders
that managing water
is a way of life here.
An ingenious system
of dunes, dikes, pumps,
and barriers protects against floods.
Life's water
of Bible truth started flowing
into this land
in the early 1900s.
By the beginning of World War II,
there were about 500 Jehovah's Witnesses here.
They offered severe persecution
by the Occupy Nazis.
Over 300
of our brothers were deported
to concentration camps.
Sadly,
more than 130 of them died.
Despite these challenges,
with Jehovah's help,
and the faithful stand
of our brothers and sisters,
the preaching work accelerated.
In August 1945,
at the first convention held
after the war,
4,000 were in attendance.
Today,
about 30,000 witnesses
zealously preach here.
The number of regular
and special pioneers
increased a total of 36%
in the last three years.
You'll see bicycles
just about everywhere in the Netherlands.
Nearly 30%
of all journeys are made by bicycle.
Our brothers and sisters
love to engage in the ministry
on two wheels.
In a country known for its
many waterways,
publishers preach from boat to boat
and from ship to ship,
such as in Rotterdam,
which manages the biggest harbor in Europe.
We end our visit in Layden,
a beautiful historic city.
This is where the famous
Dutch painter Rembrandt
was born in 1606.
One of the two congregations
in Layden is Decoy.
Their territory is
close to the tool of fields,
which bloom from April to May
and attract millions of tourists
every year.
Traditional Dutch cuisine is known
for herring,
pastries, and strupe waffles.
A delicious treat made up
of two waffle cookies
held together by syrup.
The Dutch cheeses are known
throughout the world,
including Adam
and Howda,
named for the towns in which they
originated.
Many of the Decoy
congregations, 129 publishers,
visited the picturesque
Mirberger-Molen-Wennmill
to send you their love
and affection.
From the world headquarters
of Jehovah's Witnesses,